The notion fo "happy path", "sad path", "bad path" is, at least in testing circles, not always a good way to break things down from a conceptual standpoint. This is more what developers do rather than what testers do.

The division sounds fun but the notion of "sad" and "bad" can be vague and non-specific. That's the exact opposite of what you want from operational language. Even "happy path" can be based on who it is happy for. After all, if the application provides an error when it should that, for us, _is_ a happy path. This is exactly the nomenclature conundrum the industry got itself into with "positive testing" and "negative testing." And you _still_ find testers who use that outdated terminology.

What is undeniably accurate is that testing is broken down into test conditions and data conditions. In both cases, those conditions can be categorized as those that are valid and those that are invalid.

Also note that Cucumber usage suggests a distinction between "Feature" and "Ability" which I will utilize here. Generally the "Feature" is the overall aspect of what you are providing: customers can purchase products. The "Ability" is each specific aspect of behavior that allows that feature to be realized. So adding products to a cart is an ability, as is the ability to use coupons, etc. This is a change that Cucumber folks have been slow to adopt. (I'm biased on this because I was one of the people that got the Cucumber maintainers to add this functionality as part of Gherkin.)

I feel like the coupons feature could potentially be tightened up a bit. The more scenarios there are, the more complexity that can add because it's harder to see at a glance what "applying a coupon" means. I see potential for a scenario outline or even a table format that, at least for any invalid coupons, uses the same test conditions but modifies the data conditions as part of the table. Or the reverse could be try: use the same data conditions but applied to different test conditions. Cucumber doesn't seem very good at that.

So far the exercise is interesting but is predicated upon us _not_ talking with a business representative. Even for a "simple" case as a shopping cart, it's way too easy to overdo it on scenarios before you know what does and does not apply to the business domain, including the type of products you sell. A shopping cart for Amazon shares a lot in common with a shopping cart for Valve's Steam service. But the differences between them are absolutely critical to not going overboard on specification by example.

As you get deeper into possible functionality with this exercise, the most responsible thing to do is stop! There are too many business rules that are simply unknown. We could make them up for the purposes of this exercise of course but that goes against everything we are being taught: don't over-design. In the Cucumber world in particular, I'll quote from the book _Fifty Quick Ideas to Improve Your Tests_: "Don't aim to fully replace testing with examples in user stories -- aim to create a good shared understanding, and give people the context to do a good job. Five examples that are easy to understand and at the right level of abstraction are much more effective for this than hundreds of very complex test cases."

My goal here was to explore the key examples that demonstrate how a desired feature should likely behave in different scenarios. The examples chosen at this point do no more than demonstrate the essence of the business rules of the feature. Going too much further would require validating ideas as part of a spec workshop.
